okay so this is one of the coolest
laptops I've seen this year it's this 17
inch device relatively large but it's a
very powerful comprehensive creative
battle station that allows you to do
pretty much everything you could
possibly want for a creative workflow
it's got all the good stuff like an RT X
2080 very powerful CPU but what makes it
special what makes it a very unique
product is this hinge it allows you to
rotate the screen in pretty much any way
you'd want you can have it backwards
facing the back of a laptop or a client
you can have it facing yourself like
normal or you can have it in this
top-down kind of artist mode and in
conjunction with this screen it also has
this really awesome pen now the
traditional pen that comes with a lot of
laptops out there feel like this
afterthought
they don't feel like the product was
based around the use of a pen it's just
something that can just add into a
product as a value add
but this laptop makes really good use of
this pen the screen itself has this kind
of matte texture to it so when you're
drawing on it it has this paper like
field not that it feels exactly like
paper but it feels a lot better to draw
on this screen than your kind of
standard glossy finished screen and it's
also a Wacom EMR based pen so the stylus
itself doesn't have a power source that
digitizer under the screen powers the
whole connection and it's just it's a
really good drawing surface I'm not an
artist but I can immediately tell they
put time and effort into making this pen
and digitizer interface feel proper so
if you do do digital arts and you're
working with any kind of pen based
workflow you'll probably appreciate this
now I was recently introduced to this
game called osoo and it's this rhythm
game where a lot of the veteran players
use tablets to play and I thought that
because this screen and digitizer were
so good that it would be awesome for it
and I just want to say it was like I
mean clearly this not meant as a you
know the world's best osoo machine but
it plays your arm just gets super tired
moving around but it's fun and I also
tried Starcraft 2 an RTS game the
biggest problems get to right-click so
much in that game and to right-click
with this thing you got to hold the
button down and tap and it's just it's
very ineffective I felt like I had an
APM of like 5 it wasn't good but the pen
itself and the interface with this
device is on point it really is meant
for creative work and for that it's
quite
good I did notice that when I was
drawing this Pokemon here it would
occasionally miss click from a palm
detection but the accuracy and the
pressure sensitivity felt right now the
performance of this machine is really
good it's running on our TX 2080 it's
running an eight-core i9 from Intel it's
super powerful I played some apex on
this thing great frame rates it's
obviously not a gaming oriented device
it's got a 60 Hertz screen but if you
want to play games you can video edits
on this machine are great it has very
nice performance especially for being so
quiet
it can't turbo boost a lot I feel like
if they let the users control the fans a
little more you could boost this thing
significantly but it has good
performance for the sound level this
thing pushes out now the keyboard is
it's something you have to get used to
it's got two kind of issues for one the
keyboards in this lowered position so
there's no wrist rest and the track pads
on the right so everything feels a
little more cramped everything feels
kind of unfamiliar when you first use it
but I think most people if they spend
some time with this will get used to the
device
now the keys themselves they're a
mechanical switch I don't think they
market or advertise this thing as having
mechanical switches but you can
distinctly hear like there's an
actuation point when you press down on
the key and the layout of the keyboard
itself I think it's pretty much standard
except for the right shift key I think
it's something that is you know not
everyone uses that right shift key but
for the people that do it's really small
and in this weird position the trackpad
it's got this thing you can DoubleTap
and you can activate a number pad for
the people that want to use number pads
but the inputs on this thing feel a
little strange and the other thing I
don't love about this thing is that this
machine is expensive it's clearly geared
towards premium kind of professional
users but they do not include a wrist
rest with this device and I feel like
for the kind of money that this thing
demands it should include one in the box
instead of having the user go out and
look for a custom wrist rest that fits
this particular device it should be in
the box the exterior of the device is
relatively plain there's no like super
obvious branding on the back of it it
just says like there's no there's
nothing
it has a very slightly visible concept D
that's kind of debauched into the metal
there it's not like super obnoxious
branding alright let's talk about this
flippy screen because this is the cool
part of the device now if you'll notice
through this whole video when I opened
and closed this hinge it had this Creek
to it and it's not the rotational hinge
it's the actual hinge at the base of the
laptop and I think it might be unique to
my device but it's something that I feel
like I should mention in this video it
doesn't come from the right hinge only
the left hinge I feel like they over
tightened this unit that I got and it
tightness is good like stiffness on a
device like this is great like if you're
drawing and you want that kind of sturdy
surface to work with it's perfect
but I hope this Creek isn't a side
effect of that sturdiness now the screen
itself has a relatively big bezel I'll
be honest when I first saw this thing I
was like you know why does it have to be
so big maybe they couldn't source a
panel that had this type of color
accuracy that they wanted because the
screen is excellent like the panel is
bright it's very color accurate probably
one of the most color accurate screens
that have ever seen it is geared towards
creatives but it's a really nice screen
with a thick bezel granted for people
that actually use this thing for work
you probably won't notice it but as a
laptop reviewer I feel like I'm just
going to nitpick on that and there's
also a webcam up top 1080p image and
it's a relatively clean looking picture
there's a spot at the top right of this
device where you can place your pen like
it just kind of holds it magnetically
and it's kind of good to have when you
have any kind of stylus based product or
stylus compatible product to have
something like this you just don't lose
it as readily so the arms of this device
this kind of arm here that holds the
flippy hinge for the screen it's very
well made it feels like you could spin
this thing around like hundreds of
thousands of times I feel like Acer did
a good job on this thing there is also
this magnetic like when you push it to
the back it snaps in place and also you
saw there when you flip it like when you
flip it all the way around the image
rotates automatically for the eye
depending on the mode that you have the
screen on okay it's gonna close this off
here the internals are easy to access
you can replace your Wi-Fi card your
drives your RAM and the battery down
here isn't particularly big 71 watt
hours and you get an hour and a half of
battery life it's actually shorter than
I thought but considering the size of
the screen and the resolution and all
the kind of
powerful internals that are in here I
guess it's kind of expected but you
won't get great battery life with this
machine ports there's a good selection
of ports there's no SD card slots though
there's three USB a's to use pcs and an
Ethernet jack and there's four speakers
that actually sound quite good they're
loud and they're clear now the overall
takeaway on this product it's a super
expensive device it's 5000 bucks
it is obviously not something that
everyone's gonna go out and buy but if
you are interested in this device like
let's say you are a creative
professional that's considering this
thing make sure that you're using the
pen like that is really it's big a
strength I tried to show it in this
video but because I'm not an artist I
can't really flex what this sounds
really capable of but if you're someone
that can make use of a pen and the kind
of processing and graphical power that
this is capable of I think it can be
really useful for certain people but
there you have it the Acer concept d9 I
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it
subs we loved it see you guys next time
[Music]